---
layout: post
title:  "Half-Time"
date:   2017-03-31
image: posts/nighttime.jpg
---

Whoops! This morning I suddenly became frightened: It is already spring (at least according to the calendar)!
Furthermore, I have been living in Norway for more than half a year now and I have not posted anything since Christmas.
I am a bit sorry for this laziness and I must admit that there is a significant gap between the concrete _experience_ and writing it down. 

The only countermeasure I can think of for now is to promise to produce updates more regular in the future.
This post will be the first action in this venture, where I will tell about some of my experiences in the past months.
As I do not exactly remember a causal order of the events of the past three months, I will just provide you with an unordered list of statements ;-)

- I held my first lecture. And I actually held it in Norwegian, which was quite a thrilling experience. In the beginning I was a bit afraid to stumble meaningless sentences in this language I just started to fully understand. But in the end I think, it worked out quite well. A few times, I still had the problem of looking for the right word and eventually trying to explain _around_ it or just try to _norwegianize_ a respective German word, i.e. trying to pronounce a German word in the way Norwegians would do (a strategy, which in a lot of cases is actually quite effective).
According to the results of the students, it looks like that the majority understood what I was telling. A problem, however, I stumbled upon here is that you actually get really few feedbacks from Norwegian students.
An experience I heard from several people now.
A reason might be that Norwegians sometimes just need a bit more time to trust foreigners :-P
- I discovered Ski-Touring as a new way of experiencing skiing and must admit that these is actually the best and purest form of skiing. You do not need massive environment affecting Ski resorts. The only drawback is that you have to buy quite a lot of overpriced equipment (The right clothing, Skis, Boot, Poles, Skins, Helmet, Avalanche Equipment, ...). But as soon this painful thing is done, it is fantastic. You just need your muscle power, which takes you up the mountain. A demanding venture, but skiing down fresh powder snow in the sunset is a more than rewarding experience. In the end you probably just get one long ride down, which for me is perfectly fine: _"It is Quality over Quantity !"_
- I drove a car for the first time in Norway. Yes, maybe it is because I am German, but lately I missed driving a bit. Thus, and there was one day when I had to transport some bulky things and an appointment in Voss, which would have required to board on an early train which again would have caused some problems. Long story short: I decided to rent a car. Actually, I rented it at one of the bigger car renting companies, which was quite expensive. So, please learn from my mistake: If you want to rent a car in Norway, I really recommend to use the much cheaper local alternatives [Bildeleringen](https://bildeleringen.no/en/) or [Nabobil](https://nabobil.no/). I do not have so much experience with the first one as it requires you to pay quite a high amount of deposit before you can use it but I heard that it is quite nice and cheap. I just experienced _Nabobil_, which is a platform where private persons are renting out their private car. The one time I used together with a bunch of other people, it worked really well and was really cheap as well. Next to driving in Norway: It is _relaxed_, I mean really relaxed! Maybe even a bit _somnolent_. The speed limit is 80 (most of the time even less) and it is not much traffic on the roads. So traveling by car in Norway might not get you fast to your destination but you will eventually get there quite relaxed and you have a nice view most of time (excerpt for the 75% of the time driving in a tunnel ;-P)
- I got my first paper accepted. Yeah, at the BX workshop at the [<Programming> 2018](https://2018.programming-conference.org/home) conference ! :) I am still unsure whether we just were lucky or our content was worth to be on the same level with the other top-class researchers content. As I am still in the infancy of my PhD work, I think my work yet does yield just a very few of new results. But apparently it was enough to be accepted and now it is my turn to travel to Nice and present it. I am a quite excited (maybe also a bit scared) as this will be my first time. But I am also hoping to get some feedback and new input for my future work.

So far for my current status! Currently I am staying with my parents during the Easter Week to refill the batteries. 
But tomorrow, I will start a small trip across Europe:
Hanover (Germany), Hirtshals (Denmark), Bergen (Norway), Nice (France), Thessaloniki (Greece), Trondheim (Norway), which will be a wild mix of pleasure in the beginning and end (vacation with my parents + canoe polo tournaments) and business (conference visits) in between.
I am already quite excited about this upcoming trip and really looking forward to post about my experiences.
